SURMA: We are getting
bombarded with tree stuff now.
JAKE: Yeah.
I'll be on it.
I'm on it.
That's going to be my--
SURMA: It's just, like, doing
the picking the entire time.
JAKE: Boo, boo, bep,
boop, boop, beep, boop.
DARIN FISHER: I'm back--
camouflage.
[LAUGHTER]
SURMA: You're just blending
into the background.
DARIN FISHER: Yeah, blending
in with the tree stuff.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
SURMA: Who are you, and why?
DARIN FISHER: Who am I?
I am Darin Fisher.
I work on Chrome.
SURMA: Welcome.
DARIN FISHER:
Chrome Engineering.
JAKE: So you were there
right at the start of Chrome.
DARIN FISHER: Yes.
Yes.
JAKE: Right?
You've been--
DARIN FISHER: Middle of
2006, we got started coding.
SURMA: So-- wait, 2006?
DARIN FISHER: 2006.
JAKE: Oh.
DARIN FISHER: Chrome launched
in 2008, but we started in 2006.
SURMA: Oh, the launch.
Because I was
like, wait, wait, I
hope you're talking about
the 10-year anniversary.
Like, it's 12 years now.
DARIN FISHER: Yeah.
That's why I tell
people, like, 10 years?
It's been 12.
JAKE: It takes two years
to build a browser?
DARIN FISHER: It took two
years to build a browser.
Now, mind you, that's
without the rendering engine.
We just used WebKit.
SURMA: We were
WebKit-based, yeah.
That already existed.
DARIN FISHER: And when
I say we didn't have,
in the beginning, a team that
could go and build a rendering
engine like that, so--
SURMA: I mean, that's an
undertaking, isn't it?
JAKE: Yeah.
SURMA: How many people
were there at the start?
DARIN FISHER: Well,
we were actually--
you have to go back-- rewind the
clock a little bit, because we
were a team at Google
working on Firefox.
And the whole idea--
SURMA: That's a sentence
I didn't expect.
DARIN FISHER: Yeah.
So for about a year and a half.
I joined Google beginning
of January 2005.
So we had a little, small
team bootstrapped out
of Google Security
to invest in making
web browsers work better.
Google's business depends a
lot on the web, obviously.
And the idea of actually
investing in Firefox
seemed like a really great way
to make the web work better.
JAKE: Yeah.
SURMA: OK.
So quick, quick
question in between.
You said you started in 2005.
Do you remember your
interview question?
DARIN FISHER: Yeah, totally.
I interviewed with
the Gmail team.
Do you really want to know
the interview questions?
SURMA: Yeah.
JAKE: Yeah, yeah, that's--
SURMA: I'm curious, now.
DARIN FISHER: Oh, my goodness.
JAKE: We're not
going to try them.
[LAUGHTER]
SURMA: We want to keep our jobs.
But--
JAKE: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
DARIN FISHER: OK.
So some of these are banned
questions now in the Google--
SURMA: Oh, that's good.
So then-- yeah.
DARIN FISHER: --Google
interviews slate,
because they get asked
so many darn times.
JAKE: Right.
DARIN FISHER: But
there was things
like draw a line on a
monochromatic bitmap.
So imagine you have a monochrome
bitmap, so ones and zeros,
and draw the line on that.
So it's getting you to
do makeshift operators.
JAKE: Oh!
DARIN FISHER: Yeah.
I had another
question, which was,
of a given array of integers,
find the max and min
values in that array,
or something like this.
And so they just have you
pretty much write a brute force
algorithm for that.
And then they ask if
you can do it faster,
and you're like, wait, but I
gave you-- that was so simple.
Why-- how is there a faster way?
SURMA: Why would
you make it harder?
JAKE: Yeah.
See, when-- if they
asked me, you know what,
can you do it faster, I think
I would have deleted the code
and then just typed
the same code again,
but really gone for the typing,
especially because I knew it
now.
DARIN FISHER: Yeah, that would
have been a misinterpretation
of the question.
JAKE: But, you know.
SURMA: Thinking outside of
the box is what I call it.
JAKE: Yeah.
[LAUGHTER]
And for some reason,
when you said
"a line on a
monochromatic bitmap--"
I've got a very
visual memory, so when
you said there's a
monochromatic bitmap,
I imagined a sheet
of paper stuck
to the wall with a black
and white picture on,
and they said, you've
got to draw a line on it.
And I-- swoop.
DARIN FISHER: Give
me the magic marker.
JAKE: Can I-- do I get the job?
[LAUGHTER]
SURMA: That's why
you're in Dev Rel.
JAKE: Yeah.
[LAUGHS] Absolutely.
I've been here while products
and stuff have launched,
and there's a period
of trying to figure out
the name of the thing
you're launching.
There's always code names.
What other things could
Chrome have been called?
DARIN FISHER: Oh, yeah.
So the code base was
originally called Goose.
[LAUGHTER]
SURMA: Wait, that-- I
did not see that coming.
DARIN FISHER: That was the--
in the internal repository,
originally called Goose just
because.
Somebody came up with it.
It was random.
So when you ask engineers
to name things--
SURMA: Somebody had to
create a repository.
DARIN FISHER: --you
get random names.
So then we asked
the team to come up
with a good name
for the project,
and they came up with a whole
bunch of other random names.
JAKE: Anything stuck out?
DARIN FISHER: And
I think in general,
the engineers didn't necessarily
take the process very
seriously--
[LAUGHTER]
--so a lot of names
that were pretty silly.
JAKE: Well, because Chrome--
DARIN FISHER: And
then, yes, then our--
SURMA: Like, even Chrome--
DARIN FISHER: Our engineering--
I think it was our
engineering manager came up
with the idea of Chrome.
And he said, you know what,
let's just call it Chrome.
Forget all those names
you guys came up with.
SURMA: Because I mean, in the
end, the Chrome is what you--
in that day, was
just called the--
JAKE: Yeah, that's what Firefox
called the rest of the browser,
right?
DARIN FISHER: The
chrome of an application
is the UI around the
content area, right?
SURMA: Yeah, the
window border kind of--
DARIN FISHER: Yeah,
the window border.
In fact-- yeah, absolutely,
in Firefox, chrome
refers to that part of
the browser, all the XUL
parts of the UI.
And I mentioned XUL.
If I need to explain
that, let me know.
SURMA: XULRunner.
I remember.
DARIN FISHER: Yes.
Well, anyways, so in Chrome--
in WebKit even,
there's APIs that
refer to informing the chrome
of the browser about state
changes.
And so we just called
the browser Chrome.
It was almost like
a joke kind of.
SURMA: It's almost a pun, yeah.
DARIN FISHER: Yeah, and
then so we didn't actually
expect that to be the
name of the product.
JAKE: The joke's
gone too far now.
DARIN FISHER: Yeah.
JAKE: Here we are.
SURMA: Here we are
10 years later.
DARIN FISHER: At
some point, they
were like, hm, if we put
"Google" in front of it,
could that just be
the product name?
Let's see if we
can get that past--
SURMA: I would have loved
to see that with Goose.
DARIN FISHER: --through
the naming process.
The idea of Chrome also kind
of evolved into this emphasis
on content, not chrome.
So this idea, this guiding
principle of we're here
to build a browser that's--
the users care about the content
that they're engaging with,
not about using the browser.
And so if you think
about it, we wanted
to have this-- that
sort of informed
a minimalistic approach
to the browser UI.
JAKE: Hm.
SURMA: So we don't want to
go back to the times in IE
where you had, like, 18
different search bars.
DARIN FISHER: Yeah, exactly.
SURMA: Yeah, those
were good times.
DARIN FISHER: Yeah, exactly.
So it minimized the chrome.
It's called Chrome, but
it minimized the chrome.
JAKE: So are we
going to keep working
on Chrome for, like, 40 years?
I'm trying to figure
out if I can just
ride this job to retirement--
DARIN FISHER: Yeah,
I think you will.
JAKE: --or whether I need
to start making plans.
DARIN FISHER: I think that's
a good choice, good career
choice.
JAKE: Yeah, the web's
going to be around?
We're going to be OK?
DARIN FISHER: Yeah, the web's
been around for a long time.
It's going to continue to
be around for a long time.
The fundamental
concepts of the web--
an open platform where
anybody can publish content,
and others can come along and
bring that content to users
through different form factors--
it's actually remarkable, right?
SURMA: It is.
DARIN FISHER: And I think that's
the-- adds an amazing staying
power.
SURMA: And the stuff from
the '90s still works.
I mean, the canonical
example at this point
is Space Jam, which people still
love to open up, apparently.
JAKE: The first ever website--
that still works as well.
That wasn't Space Jam.
SURMA: No, that was--
very close.
DARIN FISHER: But it's
interesting to see
how the web evolved from a
world with desktop computing
to mobile computing, and now--
SURMA: Watches.
DARIN FISHER: Yeah,
watches, VR, AR--
SURMA: Everything.
DARIN FISHER: --and so on and
so forth as form factors change.
That fundamental principle of
an open way in which people
can publish content
and then others
can figure out how to bring that
content to users in new form
factors is there.
There's an opportunity
to create it.
JAKE: It feels like a
lot of different systems
have promised that
multi-platform, running
everywhere thing, but it feels
like the web's the first one
that's really actually worked.
DARIN FISHER: Yeah, it's
kind of there by default.
JAKE: Yeah.
SURMA: So with Chrome
being around for
the foreseeable future, what is
the thing you look forward to
in the near future of Chrome?
What are the next upcoming
things that you think,
that's a big one?
DARIN FISHER: Oh, well,
I mean, there's just so
many things we're working on.
SURMA: There is, right?
DARIN FISHER: Yeah.
I mean, I'm really excited--
JAKE: Pick a favorite.
DARIN FISHER: Yeah, I know.
[LAUGHTER]
JAKE: Which of your
children are your favorite?
DARIN FISHER: I'm pretty jazzed
about the future with thinking
about WebAssembly, for example,
and the opportunity that
creates for
developers, especially
folks who have their roots in--
or they have a bunch
of C code that they
wish they could bring to
users through the web.
SURMA: Tapping into this
existing ecosystem of C
has been around for
years, and it's not
been usable on the web.
And suddenly, just, it is.
DARIN FISHER: And I was really
excited to see what the work
AutoDesk did to bring AutoCAD
to the web through WebAssembly.
I think it's really exciting,
because there's just actually
not only a lot of
code written that way,
but also a lot of
developers who know how
to create cool things this way.
And I think it just creates
a lot more opportunity.
SURMA: We're going to link
to the WebAssembly talk,
because they have AutoCAD's
presenting what they did,
which is absolutely amazing.
So that's going
to be really cool.
DARIN FISHER: And
I think, actually,
the thing that's amazing is they
made previous attempts to bring
some of their
applications to the web,
but it was only
until WebAssembly
that it was actually
possible for them
to do it in a reasonable
fashion and get a good result.
JAKE: Something I wanted to
build for years was an image
compressor on the web,
something that brings
all the existing codecs in.
And it's something I
tried five years ago, when
ASM was a thing, but
couldn't quite get there.
Some of the memory management
stuff wasn't there.
DARIN FISHER: I think
it doesn't really
scale to say the browser has
to bake in APIs for everything
you could possibly want to do.
Rather, to give the right
low-level primitives,
so that developers can build
not just great applications,
but also frameworks that
allow others to build great
applications and for people
to be able to innovate on that
foundation, either
that means we have to--
we can't possibly think
about all the stuff
that people are
going to do, but we
have to build a platform that
creates more freedom and--
SURMA: Things that
plug together.
DARIN FISHER: Yeah, yeah.
JAKE: Yeah, to be able
to build something
that can display and compress
WebP in Safari, a browser that
doesn't support it natively.
And now we can do it.
That's something you've been-
SURMA: [INAUDIBLE] Lego.
JAKE: Yeah, something
you can put together.
SURMA: Give the building blocks.
JAKE: Yeah.
DARIN FISHER: Give
the building blocks.
Yeah.
JAKE: When someone's
suggesting names for products,
and someone goes, no, we can't
have that, that's a silly name,
I just--
I stop everyone and
say, we all work
at a company called Google.
DARIN FISHER: Yes, right?
JAKE: That might
seem normal now,
but if you tell people about
that, it sounds ridiculous.
DARIN FISHER: Yeah.